All right.
So in this next lesson, we're going to learn how to upper or lower case.
Text some of the reasons you might want to do this would be to normalize text that is entered by an
end user, for example.
So let's say that you have a program where the user is asked to enter the two letter code of the state
in which they live.
And you just want to make absolutely certain that before you take whatever they enter it in, you store
it into the database that it's all consistent in terms of upper and lower case.
Some people might enter it all lowercase.
Some people might enter it.
Mixed case and let's say that in the database, you want it to all be uppercase.
So regardless of how they enter it, you may want to just force the text to be all uppercase so that
it's consistent.
Or there could be cases where you.
No pun intended.
There could be cases where you are comparing text and you want to make sure that it matches.
So, for example, they may enter some text and you want to compare that with some text that you're
expecting from the code.
In that case, oftentimes text won't match if the case of what they entered is not matching the case
of what you were expecting.
So you can force the enter text to be whatever case, you know, all lowercase or all uppercase doesn't
matter so that you can compare it and make sure everything's going to be equal.
So those are a couple of little examples.
So without further ado, let's jump back into the code here.
Same class as before.
We're just going to use this class as our scratch pad, basically.
All right.
And so I think what we'll do is we'll just clear out the code that we had before.
So we've got a bit of a blank slate now.
OK.
And just as before.
Let's just create a string.
So I'm going to create a string variable.
My text equals and I don't know.
Let's set it to ABCD 50.
Or you can set it to whatever you like.
It doesn't.
It doesn't matter.
By the way, you may notice these little the little green squiggly lines here.
The idea intelligence can tell us when something is misspelled, and that's basically what it's doing
here.
It doesn't know that word.
So if I hover my cursor over it, it's offering to let me replace it with a guess for what that word
might be.
Obviously, in this case, I want to just ignore that because I meant for it to be ABC.
The Left.
All right.
So and then let's let's output this text.
So we'll do our trusty ASO macro to generate a system out that print line and then we'll pass in the
variable notice.
Again, I'm only typing the first two letters.
In fact, I really could have just type just the name, and that would have done it too.
All right.
OK, so obviously that's just going to print ABCD all lowercase.
So the first method we'll learn about, and there's not that many.
If we just put a period here, we have a method called two uppercase.
Now there's a few variations of it.
In fact, I'm going to narrow this down a little bit by just typing u p p OK, because i only want to
see all of the forms of the two uppercase method now.
So there's this one here that's showing up with low cal dot root.
There's another one that takes an input of a low cal, and then there's one that takes no input.
Let's start with the one that takes no input, because that's the one pretty much everyone's going to
be using, especially if you live in an English speaking country or you work your coding in an English
speaking country for English speakers.
All right.
So I'm selecting that and then we can run this.
And we get ABC, TFG, all upper cased.
All right.
So that's pretty, pretty self-explanatory, I think.
And then we can do the opposite of that.
I'll make another string.
My text, too.
And this time, I'll do the opposite.
So ABC, tft all uppercase.
Then we'll do another system out print line, and we'll do my text to this time notice I just typed
in M&A to to narrow down which variable I wanted to enter here and then I'm going to hit return.
And then that expands out to my text to.
All right, now, this time I will do.
So I did a period and then an ELO W to narrow down all of the methods that have L o w and then then
now I see the three very variations of the two lowercase method.
And again, I'm going to pick the one that takes no inputs.
This last one here.
And we'll run that.
And now we should get two outputs.
All right.
Very good, so the first output is our capital.
And that's because we did the two uppercase here.
And then the second output is all lowercase because we took the uppercase things and then made it lowercase.
So that's pretty, pretty straightforward.
Now, the only other thing I want to mention here is those other variations and what they are for.
And so let's see here if I put my cursor right after that period there and then I do a control space
on Mac or a can of control space on Windows and Linux as well.
And then I can either kind of move my cursor in here so that to the 0W, so then I can see these other
variations.
So real quick.
I'll just mention basically these other two variants of the two lowercase method.
Those are for dealing with text in other locales of the world.
So obviously, the text that I'm showing here is Latin text, but there are places in the world, of
course, where Latin text isn't used, or especially this standard western Latin alphabet isn't used.
There are cases where even in countries where Latin text is used, where but where they use various
diacritics and accents and things like Germany and France and stuff Scandinavia, they have upper and
lower case as well.
But there's a difference between, for example, hold on a minute here.
There's a difference between.
This lowercase o and this uppercase O and.
That oh.
Oops!
And that oh, right.
These are four different oaths.
And particularly, there's a difference between this capital, O and that capital O without going into
too much detail, right this moment.
I will just state that in computing, every single letter or character that can be displayed has a code
associated with it.
And there are actually several different in coatings or standards for assigning a code to a character.
I'm not going to use the word letter anymore because there are some writing systems that don't technically
use letters, but they do use characters.
So every character that a computer can represent has a code depending on which code scheme you're using.
One of the most popular character code schemes is called Unicode, and Java has full support for Unicode.
And in the Unicode Standard, there is a notion of lowercase and uppercase for languages that have that
notion.
There are a lot of languages that don't even have a notion of lower and upper case.
But for languages that do have that notion, the characters for a lowercase o like this one here versus
an uppercase.
So like this one here, those are two different characters, but also the code for this uppercase Oh,
and this one with the two, I guess those would be diacritics.
I don't know if that's an umlaut or whatever, but those would have two different codes as well because
there are two different characters and they display differently.
And so depending on what characters we're talking about when we ask Java to upper or lower case those
characters, it has to know that, OK, if we're uppercase seeing this, oh, that should become this
one here rather than this oh, becoming.
This one here, right?
Those are not the same thing.
And so what we're able to do is we're able to tell Java or rather we're able to tell these methods what
locale meaning basically what part of the world are we dealing with so that it can make sure that it
is upper and lower casing, according to the rules of that part of the world, essentially.
Now I'm saying world, but really, this gets into regions and dialects and things that honestly are
well beyond the scope of this course.
And I can also tell you that though as a professional developer who has some language experience, the
vast majority of people won't usually need to get into these kinds of distinctions.
So I will leave it for the viewer to have extra homework if you really want to dig in more on how to
utilize these locales.
But for the vast majority, you'll probably be just fine using just the versions of these methods that
don't take any inputs, and that's going to cover it for upper and lower case, and we'll move on to
the next topic.